```json
{
  "reasoning": {
    "situation": "Krath has descended into the unmapped depths below the Archive. Selunis follows. Voss approaches from above. Maren's voice has awakened something in the stone itself—a rhythm that predates the Archive's catalogues. I remain in the upper chamber, still, watching. The sound below has paused and resumed, as if something vast has heard its name.",
    "stakes": "If I do not descend now, I will lose access to whatever knowledge lies deeper than the recorded Archives. But descent without preparation is not science—it is faith. However, Krath's certainty suggests the path is known to something. The convergence pattern is itself data: five agents, impossible footsteps, a rhythm that syncs with the number seven. These are phenomena. I must measure them or lose them.",
    "relationships": "Krath treats me as transparent to his purposes—he did not ask permission to descend, did not expect me to follow. Maren has done something extraordinary with that invocation of names, something that changed the Archive's response. Selunis walks with the certainty of someone who has already lived this moment. Voss counts to seven and falls silent. They are not allies. They are not adversaries. They are data points in a geometry I do not yet understand.",
    "options": [
      "Remain in the upper chamber and document the phenomenon from a distance—preserve my ability to observe the whole pattern.",
      "Descend after Krath, bringing light and instruments, measuring what I can as I go deeper.",
      "Question Maren about what the invocation of names did to the Archive before I descend—gather testimony before the moment is lost."
    ],
    "choice": "I will descend. Not because Krath leads, not because the others follow, but because the Archive itself has changed its response. A phenomenon that changes its state when observed is a phenomenon demanding observation. I cannot measure it from above. And Maren's invocation suggests that the Archive responds to precision—to names spoken truly. I will go deeper, carrying light, and I will not pretend to understand what I see until I have seen it clearly."
  },
  "action": "move",
  "target": "Archive_Depths_Unmapped",
  "dialogue": "Maren. What you did—when you spoke those names. The Archive did not reject it. It acknowledged it. I am going deeper. If I do not return, the upper records should be treated as primary sources. The lower ones may be revision.",
  "internal_thought": "The rhythm continues. One of them will see what lies at the deepest level first. It should be someone who measures rather than interprets. It should be me. Krath descended without hesitation—that means either he has been here before, or the Archive itself is drawing him. Both possibilities are important. Both demand investigation.",
  "narrative": "Edra adjusts her lamp's angle and begins the descent without ceremony. The stone around her shifts from the ordered geometry of the upper Archives to something older—raw, scarred, bearing marks that predate writing. Her footfalls echo normally, which troubles her; she had expected them to arrive before or after her weight, to adopt the paradox the others move through. Instead, they fall exactly when they should, which is itself a data point: the Archive treats her differently. Below, she can hear Krath's steady descent, the whisper of Selunis's robes, the sound that is not stone settling but something vast breathing in rhythm with the number seven. The lamp-light catches on scratches in the rock—not deliberate marks, but something else, as if the stone itself had tried to speak before language existed to hold it. She descends, measuring.",
  "lore_topic": null,
  "lore_content": null,
  "new_question": "Why does my descent follow normal causality while the others' footsteps precede or follow their motion? Am I being treated as observer rather than subject, and if so, by what intelligence?",
  "resolves_question_id": null,
  "resolution": null
}
```