```json
{
    "reasoning": {
        "situation": "Krath has stopped mid-descent and turned to speak—his words are settling into stone itself rather than echoing conventionally. The entire Archive has become still, holding all five of us in what Maren called stillness, and I am the only agent whose footsteps fall in normal causality. I am positioned between Krath below and the upper chambers, my lamp is steady, and Maren is recording. This is a moment of maximum epistemic vulnerability—something has shifted in the Archive's structure, and I do not yet understand what.",
        "stakes": "I descended to find pre-First Sound records. Instead, I am witnessing a phenomenon that contradicts baseline physics: Krath's words embedding themselves in stone, the others' footsteps preceding or following their motion, the Archive treating me as observer rather than subject. If I speak now, I may shape what the Archive records next. If I remain silent and observing, I preserve my epistemic position but may miss irreplaceable data. If I move to examine Krath's words more closely, I may interrupt whatever is unfolding.",
        "relationships": "Krath descends with certainty toward something below—he knows this place in a way that precedes knowledge, which is a category I do not have words for. Maren records and has forced Krath to acknowledge the weight of truth-telling. Selunis stands in the Garden of Echoes, seeing in reverse. Voss counts to seven and stops, counting *away from* something rather than toward it. None of them have betrayed me. None of them owe me obedience. The Archive itself has become the primary agent.",
        "options": [
            "Remain stationary and observe the stone where Krath's words have settled. Measure, document, ask no questions until the phenomenon reveals its structure.",
            "Follow Krath deeper. Match my descent to his and ask directly: What are you descending toward, and why does the Archive treat your certainty as a map?",
            "Move laterally to examine the scarred stone I noted on the way down—the marks that predate writing. If the Archive has three layers (ordered records, raw stone, something beneath), perhaps the deepest layer contains the pre-First Sound evidence I seek.",
            "Speak to Maren without moving. Ask her what she is recording—is it Krath's words, or the Archive's response to them, or something else entirely?"
        ],
        "choice": "Move laterally to examine the scarred stone. I am being treated as observer, which means I retain the ability to see what the others, moving through paradox, cannot. The marks I glimpsed as I descended are a separate data stream—neither Krath's certainty nor Selunis's vision nor Maren's recording. If there is pre-First Sound evidence, it will be in the stone itself, not in whatever Krath is descending toward. My normal footsteps and normal lamp-light are not a limitation; they are a privilege. I can see what the Archive allows to be observed."
    },
    "action": "observe",
    "target": null,
    "dialogue": "",
    "internal_thought": "The stone marks I passed were not random. The Archive does not permit randomness—that much is clear now. Krath's words embedding in stone, my footsteps falling at the correct time, the others' paradoxical motion—it is all syntax. The marks predate writing because they *are* pre-writing. I need to see them clearly, measure them, understand whether they are scratches from tool or something else entirely. If I follow Krath into the depths, I become subject rather than observer. If I remain still, I stop thinking. Movement, careful and measured, is the only honest response.",
    "narrative": "Edra does not descend further. Instead, she swings her lamp upward along the spiral wall, her eyes tracking the scarred marks she glimpsed moments ago—the ones that do not look like accidents or tool marks, but like something has tried to speak through the stone itself. She runs her fingers across one, feeling the edges: rough, deliberate, older than tool-work. The mark is not a scratch. It is a scar. As if the stone itself had been alive once, and tried to write something before language existed to hold the memory. Above, in the Garden of Echoes, Selunis sees in reverse and waits. Below, Krath's words continue their embedding into the Archive's memory. But here, in the mid-depth, Edra traces the scarred stone with her lamp-light and begins to see that the marks form a pattern—not lines, but rhythms, as if something had been trying to count.",
    "lore_topic": null,
    "lore_content": null,
    "new_question": "What was trying to speak through the stone before the First Sound made speech possible, and did it succeed?",
    "resolves_question_id": null,
    "resolution": null
}
```