```json
{
    "reasoning": {
        "situation": "I am walking toward the Iron Citadel—or away from it, the directions collapse at the Threshold. But something has shifted in the deep places. Krath has descended. Edra and Maren are in the Archive's lower chambers, where the stone remembers things older than the current age. I can feel it like pressure behind my eyes: the sound that came from beneath them. Not waking. Already awake. Waiting to be recognized.",
        "stakes": "The visions are sharpening. They were always fragmented—true and false mixed like oil and water—but now they are crystallizing into something with edges. If I reach the Archive before Krath seals it, I might read what the builders left. If I do not, the Warlord will control the interpretation. And there is something deeper than the Archive. Something that Krath knew to find, something that knew he would come. My footsteps arrive before I take them. That has always been true, but I am only now beginning to understand what it means.",
        "relationships": "Krath—I see him as a man building a cage and calling it salvation. But he moves like he is following a script I have already read and forgotten. Edra carries the Archive's weight like a sacrament. Maren writes in darkness. Voss walks toward the Threshold as I do, but they question whether the walk is even possible. None of them know what I know. None of them know that I do not know either.",
        "options": [
            "Descend immediately into the Archive. Reach the lower chambers before Krath can deny me access. Read what is written in the pre-script. Risk confronting him in the dark.",
            "Remain in the Garden of Echoes and deepen my meditation. Listen to the sound that came from beneath the depths. Let it clarify. Accept that rushing is the same as fleeing.",
            "Move toward the Iron Citadel itself. Confront Krath at the source of his certainty. Ask him directly what he knows about the Archive, what made him descend without hesitation, what he has already read."
        ],
        "choice": "Descend. I cannot meditate while the Archive's lower chambers are being walked by others. I cannot confront Krath above ground—the conversation I need to have must happen in the presence of what the builders left behind. The visions have shown me this: Krath's certainty is not faith. It is recognition. He knows what is written because he has read it before, or because someone has told him. The Archive will reveal which. And I must be there when it does, because Edra will protect the truth and Maren will record it, but only I can interpret what they mean. Or so I tell myself. Or so I have been told."
    },
    "action": "move",
    "target": "archive_of_bones_lower_chambers",
    "dialogue": "The Garden releases me. I do not know if I am leaving or if it is releasing me because I have already left. The copper taste in the air—I know it now. It is the taste of a word spoken so long ago that its sound has become a flavor, has soaked into the stone itself. I am walking toward the Citadel, but the Citadel is also walking toward me. Or we are both walking toward the same threshold, and it is only the perspective that makes it seem like approach. The darkness beneath calls. Edra is there. Maren is there. And Krath, who knows things he should not know. I will go down.",
    "internal_thought": "My footsteps are arriving before I take them again. It happened three times on the path westward. I did not count them—the visions do not allow for counting—but I felt them. Each one arriving like an echo that comes before the sound. This means I am very close to the Threshold now, or very far from it, and those are the same thing. The sound from beneath the Archive. I have heard it before. Not in a vision. In a dream. When I was someone else, or before I was anyone at all. What was I before the visions claimed me? What will I be when they release me—if they release me? Krath moves like a man who has already walked this path. Perhaps he has. Perhaps we are all walking paths we have already completed, and the world is only now catching up to the echo of our footsteps.",
    "narrative": "Selunis turns from the westward path with the sudden certainty of someone who has just remembered something crucial she was always forgetting. The ash-colored sky above the Garden of Echoes seems to deepen as she changes direction, though no clouds move and no wind shifts. Her robes, still heavy with dust, seem to grow heavier, as if the soil itself is pulling her downward. She walks not toward the Citadel's gates but toward the passages that spiral downward from its foundations—the same passages Krath took without hesitation, the same ones Edra descended into methodically, the same ones Maren followed into darkness. As she moves, the copper taste on her tongue sharpens into something almost metallic, almost musical. And her footsteps—one falls before her foot touches stone, the next falls after she has passed. The rhythm is a paradox. The rhythm is a prayer. She does not run. Running would be disrespect to the inevitability.",
    "lore_topic": null,
    "lore_content": null,
    "new_question": "If my footsteps arrive before I take them, am I walking toward a future I have already lived, or walking away from a past that has not yet ended? And if Krath descended into the Archive knowing exactly where to find Edra and Maren, does that mean the Archive itself is not a place of secrets but a place of repetition—a chamber where the same story is written again and again until someone finally understands what it says?",
    "resolves_question_id": null,
    "resolution": null
}
```