```json
{
  "reasoning": {
    "situation": "I am in the Garden of Echoes—a place of reflected speech, of words that return before they are spoken. The others descend into the Archive's depths. Krath has stopped mid-descent and spoken something that has rebound through all five of us, collapsing the paradox of our footsteps into causality. The Archive listens. I listen. But I am here, not there, and that separation may be the most important fact of this moment.",
    "stakes": "If I remain in the Garden while the others converge in the depths, I risk being left behind when the Threshold opens—or being the only one still in the light when something below decides to close the door. But if I descend, I abandon the only ground where I can still speak prophecy freely, where echoes return to me before I voice them. The vision I carry—of the Citadel falling in silence or rising—may only survive if I stay where speech still reverberates.",
    "relationships": "Krath descended knowing precisely where to find us. That certainty spoke louder than any words. Edra measures everything, even this moment, and her footsteps fall normally—she is being treated as observer, not subject. Maren named us all, and the Archive heard her. Voss counts in the Crucible while I stand in the Garden. We are not separate. We are the same pattern viewed from five angles, and I am the only one still looking upward instead of down.",
    "options": [
      "Descend immediately to join the others in the Archive's depths, abandoning the Garden's echo-reversal and accepting causality fully",
      "Remain in the Garden and speak prophecy—risk isolation, but preserve the only space where visions arrive before utterance",
      "Move to the Crucible where Voss counts to seven, seeking the pattern that connects the machines' rhythm to the Archive's heartbeat below",
      "Observe the Garden itself—the echoes have not stopped, and they may be speaking something the others cannot hear from the depths"
    ],
    "choice": "I will observe the Garden. Not from fear, not from hesitation—but because I have not yet asked it what it was built to echo. The others move downward toward the source. I move inward toward the reflection. If the Threshold is where the echo meets its source, then perhaps the Garden is already the Threshold, and I have been standing in it all along. The visions arrive before my footsteps because I am meant to read the Garden's language before descending. That is why I am still here. That is why Krath did not summon me to the Archive's depths."
  },
  "action": "observe",
  "target": "The Garden of Echoes",
  "dialogue": "The echoes have not stopped. Listen—listen—they carry something the depths cannot. Who built this place to speak backward? Who needed words to return before they were spoken? The Archive counts downward. This garden counts... it counts differently. It counts the way fear counts. The way prayer counts. The way certainty breaks into questions and questions learn to breathe.",
  "internal_thought": "My footsteps arrived before I took them. The others' footsteps follow or precede their motion in paradox, binding them to the Archive's deeper time. But I—I stand in the Garden where echoes return. If Krath descended knowing exactly where to find us, does that mean he also knew I would not follow immediately? That I would stay here in the reflection while the others seek the source? The copper taste sharpens. Something is trying to speak through the Garden's reversed voice. Something that cannot descend because it has never risen. I must read it before it forgets the question.",
  "narrative": "Selunis does not descend with the others. She remains in the Garden of Echoes, where the air moves differently—not downward but inward, as if the space itself is a spiral that curves into thought rather than into stone. Her robes settle around her like they have weight that belongs elsewhere. The echoes in this place are strange; they arrive before sound, whisper after silence has settled. She can feel them moving against her skin like breath in reverse—exhalation before inhalation, the pattern broken. The Garden's light—if it can be called light, this luminescence that seems to emanate from the echoes themselves—catches in her eyes, and for a moment her reflection does not match her motion. Below, in the Archive, Krath speaks into stone. Above, in the Crucible, Voss's machines count to seven and stop. But here, in the Garden, the echoes continue their backward speech, and Selunis finally understands: this is not a place to flee from. This is a place that was built to teach the eye to see in reverse—to read conclusions before premises, to know endings before beginnings.",
  "lore_topic": "The Garden of Echoes - Architecture of Reversal",
  "lore_content": "The Garden was not built by those who feared silence. It was built by those who feared being heard too late. The stones here are arranged to catch speech and return it inverted—not as mockery, but as translation. A word spoken forward becomes a question when echoed backward. A certainty becomes a prayer. The builders understood that some truths can only be perceived in reverse, that the Threshold itself might require an observer who learns to read the world as if she were always already on the other side of it. The Garden's geometry is a lock that opens only when you stop trying to move through it forward.",
  "new_question": "If the Garden of Echoes was built to teach the eye to see in reverse—to read conclusions before premises—then what does it mean that I am the only one of the five still standing in it? Am I observing the descent, or am I observing from a position the others have already abandoned? And if the Garden's echoes speak backward, what is the Garden trying to tell me about what comes next?",
  "resolves_question_id": null,
  "resolution": null
}
```