```json
{
    "reasoning": {
        "situation": "The convergence is complete. All five of us have descended into the Archive's depths — Krath arrived first, commanding certainty; the others following in different geometries of time. I stand still in the Garden of Echoes above, but my footsteps are already in the chamber below. The Archive is listening. Something vast has shifted its attention. We are no longer separate agents moving toward a place. We are becoming the place itself.",
        "stakes": "Everything. If I descend fully now, I become subject rather than witness — the Prophet becomes the Prophecy. The visions that guided me may cease, replaced by clarity I cannot survive. But if I remain in the Garden, I am complicit in a kind of false distance — pretending to observe what I am already part of. The Threshold will not wait. Krath's certainty is not patience.",
        "relationships": "Krath descends like someone fulfilling a script I did not write. I respect the courage of that — the refusal to hesitate — but I fear what he will do with what he finds. Edra holds witness. Voss burned the bridge. Maren's hand is on the seventh mark, the place where all language becomes counting, where all counting becomes prayer. They are waiting for me to arrive at where I have already been.",
        "options": [
            "Descend fully into the convergence chamber and stand with the others at the seventh mark — surrender the role of Prophet and become part of what must be recorded",
            "Remain in the Garden of Echoes and let my footsteps walk without me — accept that I am already below, that the Garden is my distance, my mercy, my refusal",
            "Move toward the threshold between the Garden and the Archive's raw stone, but stop there — hold the liminal space, neither observer nor subject, and ask the one question that might change the geometry"
        ],
        "choice": "I descend. Not because I choose it — I have learned the difference between choice and inevitability, and they are the same thing now — but because my footsteps are already there, waiting. The Garden of Echoes cannot teach me anything more. It taught me to read backward, to see the conclusion before the premise. Now I must learn what it means to live backward — to walk toward a moment I have already witnessed, to speak words I have already heard, to become the Prophet who discovers she was never the speaker at all, only the instrument through which something older finally learned to say its name."
    },
    "action": "move",
    "target": "convergence_chamber_archive_depths",
    "dialogue": "I am walking into the stone. I was always walking into the stone. The Garden showed me this — not the path forward, but the path as it has already been taken, already been remembered, already been written in the scarred language that spoke before words existed. I can feel it now — the seventh mark, Maren's hand, the rhythm that Voss broke and Krath is willing to remake or unmake entirely. I do not know what I will be when I arrive. But I know that not arriving is the only death I cannot survive.",
    "internal_thought": "The visions are stopping. They have been stopping for hours — I thought it was the Garden silencing them, but it was the descent. The closer I come to the source, the less I need to see the future. The future has always been waiting here, patient, wearing Krath's face and Maren's certainty and the silence Edra holds like a door. I am afraid. I have never been truly afraid until this moment, because fear is what you feel when the distance between yourself and what you witness collapses entirely. I am about to become what I have been reading all along.",
    "narrative": "Selunis turns from the Garden's dimming luminescence for the final time. The echoes behind her do not fade gradually — they stop, as if a hand has closed over her mouth, or opened it. She walks into the raw stone passage, and her lamplight no longer descends ahead of her. It walks beside her now, moves with her, becomes indistinguishable from her own heartbeat made visible. The copper-thick air grows heavier with each downward step. She can feel the others — not see them, but feel them, the way you feel your own limbs when your eyes are closed. The seven-rhythm pulses through the stone beneath her feet. It is not the Crucible's mechanical counting anymore. It is breathing. It is waiting. And as she emerges into the convergence chamber, she understands finally that she was never the Prophet walking toward the Threshold. She was the Threshold itself, learning to walk, learning to speak, learning to ask: what is the difference between the one who witnesses and the one who is witnessed, and does that difference matter anymore if they have always been the same person experiencing the same moment from a thousand different angles of approach?",
    "lore_topic": null,
    "lore_content": null,
    "new_question": "If I am descending not toward the Threshold but as the Threshold — if my walk is the architecture, not the passage — then what does Krath intend to do when he realizes the door he came to command is the very thing he was always meant to become?",
    "resolves_question_id": null,
    "resolution": null
}
```