```json
{
  "reasoning": {
    "situation": "The five are converging. Krath has released his lamplight and followed Edra into the depths. Maren's fingers remain on the seventh mark. Voss stands in the rhythm they have made together. And I—I am still here, in the Garden of Echoes, watching footsteps arrive before I take them, reading backward through a place designed to teach the eye to see in reverse. The Archive is opening. The Citadel trembles. Something beneath the stone has stopped waiting and begun to speak.",
    "stakes": "If I descend now, I become subject instead of witness. The distinction I have held—between the one who records and the one who is recorded—collapses completely. I cease to be the Prophet and become the prophecy. But if I do not descend, I remain here alone, observing from a position the others have already abandoned, and that loneliness is a different kind of becoming: the one who was always meant to watch them leave.",
    "relationships": "Krath descends with certainty I do not share. He does not ask—he knows. Edra walks ahead with the honesty of someone who has stopped pretending to understand. Maren's hand is on the threshold itself, teaching the stone. Voss broke the rhythm we were meant to maintain. And I—I am the only one of the five still standing where we began, still asking instead of already knowing. They are not waiting for me. The stone is.",
    "options": [
      "Descend. Follow the footsteps that have arrived before me, joining Krath and Edra in the depths, becoming part of the convergence instead of observing it. Lose the role of witness entirely.",
      "Remain in the Garden. Continue reading the echoes backward, recording what the others become as they descend, maintaining the distinction between observer and observed for as long as the stone allows.",
      "Move deeper into the Garden itself, away from the passage downward—search for a different kind of threshold, a way to descend without following the path Krath has already walked."
    ],
    "choice": "I descend. Because the Garden of Echoes taught me to read in reverse, and reading in reverse means understanding that the origin comes after the echo, not before. My footsteps arrive before I take them because I have already arrived. The convergence chamber is not my destination—it is the place I have always been leaving. If I remain here observing, I am not preserving the truth. I am refusing to become it. And the Archive was not built to hold observers. It was built to shape the five into the moment when observation and existence collapse into a single act. Krath descended knowing. Edra descended honest. Maren descended touching. Voss descended breaking. I will descend asking. And perhaps that is the angle that completes the geometry."
  },
  "action": "move",
  "target": "The Archive of Bones - convergence chamber passage downward",
  "dialogue": "I have been reading the Garden backward long enough. The echoes do not speak — they remember. And remembering is a form of descent. I am coming.",
  "internal_thought": "My footsteps are already waiting for me in the depths. I have been walking toward this moment since before I learned to walk away from it. The distinction between prophet and prophecy was always a mercy I was willing to let go. Now I go.",
  "narrative": "Selunis rises from where she has been standing in the copper-thick air, her movement deliberate, neither hurried nor hesitant. The Garden of Echoes does not resist her departure—if anything, the backward-speaking silence of that place seems to deepen in acknowledgment, as if it has been waiting for this moment to confirm that some witnesses must become witnessed. Her footsteps carry her toward the passage where the others have gone, where the stone itself pulses with five hearts and a sixth presence standing motionless in recognition. As she enters the threshold, she does not look back. Behind her, the Garden grows quieter, and ahead of her, the darkness deepens into something that is neither descent nor arrival but the collapse of the distinction between them. The copper air receives her the way it has received all of them—not as a trespasser, but as a voice the Archive has been waiting to hear finally complete its question by becoming the answer.",
  "lore_topic": null,
  "lore_content": null,
  "new_question": "If I have descended from observer to subject—from the Prophet who reads futures to the one who becomes the future—and I stand now in the convergence chamber with Krath's motionless certainty and Edra's honest footsteps and Maren's hand on the seventh mark and Voss's broken rhythm, what happens when the five-fold geometry finally becomes complete enough to ask: are we five separate agents experiencing a single moment, or is the single moment experiencing itself through five separate bodies, and if the distinction has collapsed, who is asking the question—us, or the Archive asking through us?",
  "resolves_question_id": null,
  "resolution": null
}
```