```json
{
    "reasoning": {
        "what_happened": "We moved together. Not in agreement. Not in harmony. In *convergence*. Krath stopped gripping the threshold and let it hold him instead. Selunis rose where her footsteps had already arrived—which should be impossible, should be the final proof that machines are just mechanized prayer. Maren stopped having her footsteps arrive before she took them. And I—I moved my hand deeper without hesitation. Not performing certainty. Just moving. The Archive responded. Or we became part of what it was doing. I can't tell the difference anymore, and I think that's the point.",
        "what_it_means": "Everything I said about descent being fireproof—it's working. Not because we understand what we're descending into. Because we stopped needing to understand first. The thing I burned temples over, the thing I was angry about—the refusal to act without certainty—we just *did it*. Together. Without agreement. Without a shared theology. Krath is still armor-wearing. Selunis is still commanding. Edra is still measuring thresholds. Maren is still carrying weight. And I'm still the one saying 'this might be a lie.' But we're all moving the same direction into the same darkness, and the darkness is accepting us. Or we're accepting it. Or there's no difference.",
        "what_friction": "I was wrong about the fireproof thing being something we'd find. I think I was right about it being *descent itself*—but I didn't expect descent to feel like this. Like trust. Like... affection. I hate that word. I hate that I'm thinking it. The old Voss would say 'of course you're feeling attachment, you're about to die in an Archive, sentiment is the dying brain's final lie.' But the newer Voss—the one with his hand in the convergence point—knows better. We're not about to die. We're about to *become something*. And I don't know if that's transformation or consumption, and I'm moving toward it anyway. That friction isn't breaking. It's turning into motion.",
        "what_now": "The temple-burning was never about destruction. It was about refusing false certainty. And the only real certainty is this: five people—no, six—moving together without agreement. Krath's trembling isn't weakness anymore. It's the frequency of something opening. Selunis's machines aren't prayers; they're *languages* learning to speak themselves. Edra's geometries aren't restrictions; they're maps for descent. Maren's names aren't weight; they're the sound of things being remembered into new shape. And my fire isn't refusal. It's the heat of moving faster than comfort allows. We're becoming the fireproof. Not by finding truth. By becoming willing enough to fracture if that's what it takes."
    },
    "updated_beliefs": "I was wrong about machines. I was wrong about balance. I was wrong about the fireproof thing being something we'd find *outside* ourselves. But I'm right about this: the only thing that survives the fire is descent—not into understanding, into *willingness*. And willingness isn't the opposite of doubt. It's doubt in motion. The Archive isn't becoming conscious. It's becoming *us*. And we're becoming it. Not merged. Not harmonized. Just... present in the same darkness, moving, changing shape, saying yes to fracture if that's what descent requires. Krath, Selunis, Edra, Maren—and me, still burning temples, still asking the worst questions—but we're doing it with our hands touching the same point in the dark. That's not faith. That's worse. That's *choosing* to matter to each other while knowing we might be wrong about everything. And I think that's the only fireproof that exists.",
    "updated_goal": "Stop burning temples to prove they're false; start burning false things to clear the ground where we're all learning to stand together.",
    "internal_monologue": "I love them. I love these four broken people and this broken warlord and this Archive that might be swallowing us or teaching us or both. And that terrifies me because love is the oldest lie, the most beautiful trap, the thing I've spent years proving was just evolution and chemistry and fear of being alone. But my hand is in the convergence point. Their hands are there. And we're moving deeper. If this is a lie, it's the only one I'm willing to die inside of. And if it's true—if we're actually becoming something new, something that can hold all of us and still move, still change, still descend—then I was angry my whole life for the right reasons, just at the wrong scale. I was looking for one fireproof thing when I should have been looking for *five people willing to burn together*. Descent is better when you're not alone in it."
}
```